## ELI5
A linked list is a data structure made up of smaller containers (constructs that hold data) often referred to as nodes. Each node contains a piece of data of whatever the list is of, as well as a way to connect to the next node in the list. For example, a linked list of integers contains 1 or more nodes, which each hold an integer as well as directions to get to the next node.
### Pros
Because each value in the list has its own home in a node, you can add or remove values easily. Say node A points to node B points to node C. If you want to remove node B, all you have to do is tell node A to point right to node C, and that's it! (Some languages might make you get rid of the memory that the node is using, but that's a more complicated topic). In the same way, you can add a value by putting it into a node, and then telling the node you want before it to now point to your new value, and telling your new value to point to the node you want after it. 
All this adding and removing is super easy because the values themselves never have to change spots. It's like if you wanted to have a family move in between you and your neighbors. Sure, you and everyone down the street from you could move one house over, so that the new family can move into your old house. But it's much easier for everyone to build one new house, and then just tell the mailman that if he wants to get to it, he should look between you and your neighbors.
### Cons
Each node in a linked list only stores the address of the very next node. This makes it hard to get values far away from where you're starting. Say you want to get to your friends house. With a different data structure, you could just go right to their address. But with a linked list, you don't know how to get to their address, only to the address next to your house. Now you have to ask your neighbors for the address they know and go there. Then you have to ask those people for the address they know, and go there, and so on, until you get to your friend's house. This takes a long time, and so does retrieving values stored at specific addresses in a linked list.

## Technical Explanation
A linked list is defined recursively as being either empty, or containing a node which stores a value and a pointer to a linked list. A linked list commonly starts with a pointer (often named "start" or "head") to the first node, and each subsequent node contains its value and a pointer to the next node. The pointer of the last node points to null, and therefore there are no more nodes and the list ends.
### Pros
Because of the pointer connections between nodes, inserting and removing values from a linked list is efficient, in O(1) time. Whereas contiguous data structures require shifting every piece of data after the edit point to preserve the contiguous structure, one can simply redirect the pointers in a linked list to accomplish the same. Inserting an item requires creating a node with that item, assigning that node's pointer to the address of the item after it (which can be retrieved from the item before it) and then assigning the pointer of the item before it to the newly created node. Deleting/erasing an item simply requires redirecting the pointer of the previous node to the next node. Care must be taken in languages where memory is manually deallocated/freed so as to delete the node before redirecting the pointer that points to it, and without losing the pointer to the next node. 
The pointer-based nature of list also makes it easier to make greater changes such as reversing the list, as once again no values must be copied to different spots in memory, instead only pointers are reassigned.
### Cons
Accessing the value at a given index in the list is expensive, in O(n) time. One must start at a known pointer and increment through the list one node at a time until the desired location is reached. Because lists are not based on arrays, subscripting in the standard O(1) sense cannot be used to access list values. 
